# **Why I choose this project**
I am Arush and I am very intrusted in things with wheels especially cars and bikes. I think electric skateboard is kind of smaller version of car and its soo cool as well. I was wondering to make an electric scooter before but then I changed my mind to electric skateboard due to budget and knowledge issues.


# **Description of my project**

I am thinking of making an electric skateboard which will move by a remote controller. The person who is riding the skateboard will be holding the remote controller and will be responsible for controlling the skateboard. The user can use the features of an electric skateboard from a remote controller like acceleration and brake. It will have the max speed of 30km per hour and the minimum speed of 1 or less. The user can control the speed of the board by the remote controller and can adjust the maximum speed by some simple codes like the maximum rotations per minute. The user can also break just by the remote controller using the slider on the remote controller.
I will buy some of the things online which are difficult for me to make or not possible for me to make like the trucks, wheels and remote controller. Some of the things will be made by me like assembling the skateboard, the deck made out of maple plywood and the storage area for the battery and the electric components.
For the wood I am thinking of making 7-9 thin layers of maple plywood then sticking it together using wood glue which must be strong enough to hold the wood in place without breaking. After the glue I will use the vacuum suction to stick the layer and then leave it for around 24 - 48 hours accordingly. I will use my own mould made out of foam to give my deck the shape for more durability. After the board is molded and stuck properly I will leave it for 1 to 2 weeks to cure and then start my other work.
This skateboard will be mainly made for me so I would be using it most of the time but it should still have the maximum weight limit of lowest 75 to 80 kg which is more than my weight and can go up to 100 - 120 kg. I will use the skateboard in the footpaths and mostly the places with plain paths. I will not use it in the uphills and the rough surfaces so the motors and battery will not have too much load. I will not ride it at the max speed to prevent the board and other key components from breaking.
For the durability & wear-and-tear considerations I will use the best quality materials which will fit my budget. For the wood I will use multiple layers of maple plywood which must handle at least 75 kg to 100 kg of weight, I will use the second hand trucks and wheels from Mapoo Shuffle 4 VS skateboard, ESC and the remote will be from AliExpress to stabilize my budget,------ battery ------ still thinking, I will design my own battery and electronics housing and 3D print it. I will most likely go with PETG filament as it’s strong and durable and best for electronic components and also use some metal plates under the housing for extra metal support. I will keep in mind about the small things like I will use thread locker in the screws to prevent them from getting off or loosen while I am riding the e-skateboard and I will also use the 6mm rubber pads underneath the trucks for less vibrations and absorb some of the shock for better experience while riding.
My E-skateboard will not be so fancy instead it will be just a normal classic skateboard, but I could work on the designs to maintain its classic look like I will use the black grip tape for more grip and to make the skateboard look good as well. I could also paint the board from the bottom and make the deck fancier from outside. I would hide the screws under the grip tape but that would be difficult to remove later so I will just keep the screws and then use some black hiding tapes to hide them if needed.

---Some of the tests that I am going to do to ensure the durability of my board.---
For the deck’s durability : After my deck is finished I will perform some of the major tests to check the durability and the waterproofing. I will put some weight on the board and then keep increasing the weight until I get to my expected weight. If the board starts creaking or starts bending from the middle then the deck must have some more improvement but if the deck is strong and doesn't bend it's perfect for my weight. I will also do another weight test after it passes the first weight test by standing on the deck and then lightly jumping on it and if the deck is still and don't bend it's good for my weight even if I jump. Lastly, If I will apply waterproof coating on the deck I will test it as well by pouring some water on the board - If the water slides then the coat is good enough but if the wood soaks the water the duck must need some more waterproofing coating. 
For Trucks & wheels durability : I will do some of the research on the trucks & wheels that I am going to use like what material they are made up of and which company they are made by. The trucks must be made up of high quality material like aluminium and metal and in my project I am going to use aluminium alloy which are both durable and lightweight. I will also be ensuring what company they are made by, the trusted companies wheels & trucks will be high quality. I am going to use the mepoo shuffle’s trucks and wheels which is a trusted company with great reviews.
For Waterproofing : I can use some pieces of foam from the inside of the housing to prevent the water from going inside and I will use the PETG filament for the housing which is more water resistance then the other 3D printing filaments and then I will also test it by sprawing the housing from outside when it's empty from inside and do multiple tests on it until the inside is dry when sprawing from outside.



